Our permissions are working and we're able to view the camera, but the next step we need to do is we
need to enable the user to be able to take a picture.
And the way that I implement that, this is just a simple tap on the screen.
We'll take the picture.
It's intuitive enough that the user is going to tap on the screen regardless.
And by tapping on the screen, the picture will be taken and they'll be taken back automatically to
the previous screen.
The way that we do that is we can use our touchable opacity from react native.
So we do touchable opacity.
And what we can do is we can put a touchable opacity inside of the profile camera, and by putting it
inside of the profile camera, we now enable the user to tap on the screen.
So if we put an arm press here and we said that that press was going to invoke a function called SNAP,
which is going to snap the picture.
Well, now we have to define that function.
Consed snap is going to be a function that's going to be asynchronous because every time you take a
picture, it's going to happen asynchronously.
You don't know what's happening because the camera module is out of our control.
It's out of its out of our domain.
It's out of react native.
So when a when a picture is being taken, a lot of background processes are happening.
So we do it in an async manner.
Think of this like a promise.
We know something is going to come back to us.
So we're going to use async a wait, which is basically a wrapper around a promise that enables us to
await something for it, for it to come back.
So what we'll do here is we set up our camera reference, which is going to point to the profile camera,
and we can now use that camera reference.
So we'll say if camera reference.
Then we can do stuff, if this has a value, then we know we can take a picture, so we'll say CONSED
photo and this will get us back.
The photo is a weight camera ref dot current, which is the current value of the camera, which will
be the profile camera.
So camera of the current dot take picture async.
And this will go ahead and take a picture, and once it's taken a picture, what it's going to return
us is console that log photo and we'll know what the photo is at that point in time.
OK, so now if we have our touchable capacity here and we press snap, we'll know that we'll get it
back, right?
Well, let's try that out.
If we just put our touchable capacity here and we open up our camera, which for that will open up the
terminal as well so that we can see what's going on.
And if we go over to here and we open up our camera, what's going to happen is when we press.
Oh.
Nothing's happening.
Well, did we do something wrong?
Well, let's quickly reload if we reload.
And we try again, will it work?
Let's try it out.
Huh, pressing on the camera isn't doing anything.
Well, why would that be?
That's a good question.
So if we go look at our code here, well, touchable opacity is inside of the profile camera and if
it's inside of the profile camera.
Is it actually taking up the width and height that it should?
Obviously, our touchable capacity is in the wrong spot, so it shouldn't be inside of the profile camera,
but rather it should be wrapping the profile camera.
So if we put it over here and then we close the tag at the end, what will happen is our touchable capacity
is now wrapping the entire camera.
And if we open up our terminal here and we look at our camera now, if we press oh, we're getting back
information.
We're getting back information from the camera.
If we're giving back a height, we're getting back a uttara.
So it's storing the image on the phone and we're getting back that image location on the phone.
Well, this seems like something we can use to render out the profile picture of the user.
Well, let's try and go ahead and do that now that we have our camera hooked up to be able to take pictures.
Awesome.